#summary RTMFP Servers.

We work mainly on the client part of the API,<br>
but you still need a *rendez-vous* server if you<br>
want to use the API outside of a LAN, so here the info.

== Adobe ==

  * [http://labs.adobe.com/technologies/stratus/ Adobe Labs] *Stratus* (not available anymore)
    * also referred as *Adobe Stratus P2P rendezvous service*
    * see [http://gamingnotes.com/?p=1881 Move from Stratus to Adobe Cirrus]
    * [http://blogs.adobe.com/ktowes/2010/10/introducing-cirrus-the-new-codename-for-stratus.html Introducing “Cirrus” (the new codename for Stratus)]
  * Adobe Media Server 4 (only RTMFP v1, no groups)
  * Adobe Media Server 5 (only RTMFP v1, no groups)
  * [http://labs.adobe.com/technologies/cirrus/ Adobe Labs] *Cirrus* (current)
    * also referred as *Adobe Cirrus*
    * also referred as *Cirrus 2*
    * [http://www.adobe.com/cfusion/entitlement/index.cfm?e=cirrus Sign up for a Cirrus developer key]

As of today none of the commercial Adobe servers allow to use RTMFP groups<br>
which allow swarming and multicast.

and somewhere in the FAQ
<pre>
There is no commercial offering today with the new RTMFP Groups technology.
</pre>


Cirrus 2 does allow that
<pre>
Cirrus is a hosted peer introduction service that facilitates establishing communication
between Flash Player clients or Adobe AIR endpoints using RTMFP. Flash Player endpoints
must stay connected to the server during the entire time of communications.
Unlike Flash Media Server, Cirrus does not stream video or support media relay,
shared objects, or scripting. Cirrus is being made available as a beta service through
Adobe Labs to allow our developer community to begin building applications using RTMFP.
</pre>
but with few gotchas
  * need a developer key
  * can not be used for commercial applications
  * is considered a free beta service
  * if somehow you plan/manage to connect 10.000 or so user you need<br>to communicate with Adobe via the [http://forums.adobe.com/community/labs/cirrus Cirrus forum]

for example (see [http://forums.adobe.com/message/5014530#5014530 Does Cirrus limit the number of connections ?])<br>
answer:<br>
<pre>
Codename Cirrus currently has no limit to
the number of connections per developer key.
 
we ask that you let us know if you'll exceed 10,000 concurrent
connections for purposes of resource & capacity planning.
</pre>





== Open Source ==

TODO

== Others ==

TODO